In fairness to our governmental partner, our shareholders should acknowledge – indeed trumpet – the fact
that Berkshire’s prosperity has been fostered mightily because the company has operated in America. Our
country would have done splendidly in the years since 1965 without Berkshire. Absent our American home,
however, Berkshire would never have come close to becoming what it is today. When you see the flag, saythanks.
• From an $8.6 million purchase of National Indemnity in 1967, Berkshire has become the world leader in
insurance “float” – money we hold and can invest but that does not belong to us. Including a relatively small
sum derived from life insurance, Berkshire’s total float has grown from $19 million when we entered the
insurance business to $147 billion .
So far, this float has cost us less than nothing. Though we have experienced a number of years when insurance
losses combined with operating expenses exceeded premiums, overall we have earned a modest 55-year
profit from the underwriting activities that generated our float.
Of equal importance, float is very sticky. Funds attributable to our insurance operations come and go daily,
but their aggregate total is immune from precipitous decline. When it comes to investing float, we cantherefore think long-term.
If you are not already familiar with the concept of float, I refer you to a long explanation on page A-5. To
my surprise, our float increased $9 billion last year, a buildup of value that is important to Berkshire ownersthough is not reflected in our GAAP (“generally-accepted accounting principles”) presentation of earnings
and net worth.
Much of our huge value creation in insurance is attributable to Berkshire’s good luck in my 1986 hiring of
Ajit Jain. We first met on a Saturday morning, and I quickly asked Ajit what his insurance experience hadbeen. He replied, “None.”
I said, “Nobody’s perfect,” and hired him. That was my lucky day: Ajit actually was as perfect a choice as
could have been made. Better yet, he continues to be – 35 years later.
One final thought about insurance: I believe that it is likely – but farfrom assured – that Berkshire’s float
can be maintained without our incurring a long-term underwriting loss. I am certain , however, that there will
be some years when we experience such losses, perhaps involving very large sums.
Berkshire is constructed to handle catastrophic events as no other insurer – and that priority will remain long
after Charlie and I are gone.
Our Four Giants
Through Berkshire, our shareholders own many dozens of businesses. Some of these, in turn, have a
collection of subsidiaries of their own. For example, Marmon has more than 100 individual business operations,ranging from the leasing of railroad cars to the manufacture of medical devices.
• Nevertheless, operations of our “Big Four” companies account for a very large chunk of Berkshire’s value.
Leading this list is our cluster of insurers. Berkshire effectively owns 100% of this group, whose massivefloat value we earlier described. The invested assets of these insurers are further enlarged by the extraordinaryamount of capital we invest to back up their promises.
5